---
title: My Dopp Kit
date: 2023-09-17 07:10:00 -07:00
permalink: "/posts/dopp_kit"
published: false
categories:
- Travel
tags:
- packing
- travel
feature-img: "/uploads/the-nix-company-QanhCEMlSdk-unsplash.jpg"
thumbnail: "/uploads/the-nix-company-QanhCEMlSdk-unsplash.jpg"
layout: post
---

Yes, another travel and packing post.  Much like using packing cubes, I look at everything as a kit that can often contain smaller kits.  My Dopp Kit assumes I have my [EDC (Every Day Cary)](https://mikehathaway.com/2023/09/08/cruise-day-bag.html) bag stocked and packed.  So there are items you may keep in your kit that I leave out of mine, if you are using this guide be sure to look at the EDC web page to make sure you fill in all the gaps.

What is a Dopp Kit?\
According to the [Chicago Tribune](https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/ct-xpm-2003-09-02-0309020136-story.html): Jerome Harris, a Chicago-resident, dropped out of school during the Depression and began doing janitorial work at his uncle Charles Doppelt’s company to help his family. The Charles Doppelt Co. was designing a new leather case for toiletries and Harris, then 19-years-old, eventually became the designer for the case.\
\
It was named a Dopp kit, based off Charles’ last name. The Dopp kit was issued to GI’s during World War II and became so popular that Samsonite ended up buying the company in the 1970’s.\
\
The kits were a popular gift given to boys when they became men, so now, Dopp kits are used to describe toiletry bags used by men while toiletry bag is the term used by women (although, of course, a woman can use a Dopp kit and vice versa).

I can remember my dads leather Dopp kit from the many family trips, even camping.   My bag starts with the basics from "[The Art of Manliness](https://www.artofmanliness.com/lifestyle/gear/building-the-perfect-dopp-kit/)" and I have added a few extras that come in handy over and over again.  My Dopp kit like any other kit I build is not just about having what is needed for a trip, it is about being able to solve problems.  Problem solving is why a $20.00 bill is something that needs to be tucked inside somewhere.  If you think there should be more, use $20's and nothing larger less you be stuck needing to use it in a situation where a $100 becomes inappropriate or not practical. 

What should be in your Dopp Kit?

* \[ \] $20 bill

**Mouth**

* \[ \] Toothbrush

* \[ \] Toothpaste

* \[ \] Floss

* \[ \] Floss threaders

* \[ \] Mouthwash

**Hair**

* \[ \] Brush/Comb

* \[ \] Shampoo

* \[ \] Conditioner

**Shave**

* \[ \] Razor

* \[ \] Blades

* \[ \] Shave Cream

* \[ \] Syptic Pencil

**Body**

* \[ \] Body Wash

* \[ \] Loofah

* \[ \] Deodorant

* \[ \] Nail Clippers

**Other**

* \[ \] Compressed Towels

* \[ \] Cotton Swabs

* \[ \] Q-tips

* \[ \] Tweezers

* \[ \] Body Glide

**Sewing Kit**

* \[ \] Needles

* \[ \] Thread

* \[ \] Safety Pin

* \[ \] Pins

* \[ \] Spare Buttons /s

**Travel First Aid Kit ([My detailed kit is here](https://mikehathaway.com/posts/travel_first_aid_kit))**

* \[ \] Band-aids

* \[ \] Blister bandages

* \[ \] Ibuprofen

* \[ \] Sleeping pill

* \[ \] Allergy medicine

* \[ \] Indigestion medicine